# Xenogenders
> The issue of the "inclusion" of xenogenders within trans politics and support networks is a burning issue in the "global" (i.e., predominantly North American) online trans community, as well as in a few places of the physical world, including France. Here, the terms of this conversation are the following: a massive group of Tumblr users, mostly young people (or should I say entities) who are mainly "active" online, expresses anger to an already very much divided, politically active trans (de)community mainly composed of older (than twenty-five) activists whose politics are focused on ending state and state-sanctioned violence toward trans people. The former are frustrated not to "feel included" in the latter's discourses. It is hard to know what this inclusion would translate into in terms of actual political agenda. Dialogue seems impossible: it has certainly been unsuccessful so far. [(Morin, 2017)](#References)

**Xenogender**[^note1] (French: **Xénogenre**[^note2])  a neologism derived from 'xeno' (of strange or alien origins) and 'gender',[^note3]  is a term for a diverse category of gender neo-identities, often considered to be within the umbrella of non-binary gender identities.[^note4]

## References
[^note1]: "I further assume (through observation) there is a spectrum of gender exhibited in society – a point substantiated by the widespread existence of people who transcend the historical binary, identifying, amongst other descriptions, as gender-fluid, transgender, *or xenogender.*" *In*: Ashbrook, E. (2017). A discussion on whether gender roles are the main barrier to the achievement of sex equality. British Mensa’s: ANDROGYNY, 1(1), 11-16.
[^note2]: "Further nuancing this framework, when asked to describe their gender, participants clearly demarcated numerous sub-categories within that of non-binary, as has been seen in certain writings by non-binary Francophones (Ashley, "Les personnes"). Distinctions were drawn among terms such as agenre (no gender), bigenre (of two genders), demigenre (partial gender identification), neutrois (neutral gender existing outside of the concepts of masculinity and femininity), pangenre (of an infinite number of genders of the individual's culture(s)), ambonec (simultaneously female, male, and neither, stemming from the Latin ambo for both and nec for neither), *xénogenre (a way of designating gender that uses lexical domains not habitually associated with gender such as colors, symbols, etc.),* and fluide dans le genre (gender that varies across time). More often than not, multiple identification terms were used by each individual, owing to the ways in which these categorizations are meant to be overlapping and flexible in their applications. In fact, non-binaire never occurred in isolation, being either accompanied by an additional identity term or an explanation." *In*: Knisely, K.A. (2020) Subverting the Culturally Unreadable: Understanding the Self-Positioning of Non-Binary Speakers of French. The French Review, 94(2), pp. 173-192. DOI: [10.1353/tfr.2020.0280](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/782760)
[^note3]: Lumen, M. (2021) 'What ARE Xenogenders? The Evolving Self-identity Landscape' Available at: [saltyworld.net](https://saltyworld.net/what-are-xenogenders-the-evolving-self-identity-landscape/) [(archive link)](https://web.archive.org/web/20211215161145/https://saltyworld.net/what-are-xenogenders-the-evolving-self-identity-landscape/)
[^note4]: Feraday, C. (2016) 'For lack of a better word: neo-identities in non-cisgender, non-straight communities on Tumblr'. Ryerson University. doi: [10.32920/ryerson.14648067.v1](https://rshare.library.ryerson.ca/articles/thesis/For_lack_of_a_better_word_neo-identities_in_non-cisgender_non-straight_communities_on_Tumblr/14648067/1)
